---
layout: single
title: Plagiarism
---

I guess this is one of the few posts I write that will get to the public on this blog. I am really thinking about making my other posts public but I really am nervous and afraid of the response. I have tried writing for an institute newspaper blog and failed miserably. I think I’m just worried about the criticism I might face because of making my posts public. I have similar reservations about this one as well but its important to me that this goes out in the world and instead of being scrutinized for its coherency or grammar, I think it should be read for the content it has.

As the title says it all, the post is about plagiarism, what it means (well I don’t want to talk really about this), the different forms it manifests in and the Indian mentality about it. Ohh! before I begin, this post might be like several others on plagiarism but the ideas I describe here are atleast my own. Copying/Plagiarism (I would be using these terms synonymously as far as this post is concerned although there is a subtle difference between the two.) is a notion that gained popularity in the 18th century in Europe ([wiki](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Plagiarism)). Before that people actually preferred others copying. Plagiarism is simply put, picking up something or someone’s idea and display it as your own. Such a notion has gained wide popularity in the 21st century because of the huge amount of data available freely on the Internet.

Well, I don’t really mind it when you copy someone’s idea because you might not be good enough to think of on your own or you desperately need one and don’t have anything. That’s what search is all about and that is why Google makes a lot of money. So, yeah you are not good enough; you copy somebody’s idea fine. But if you don’t have in you to credit/cite the original, you are making a big mistake. People wouldn’t appreciate you less if you simply cite the source. It, however, looks bad if others point out that you copied it from somewhere else. It shows that not only are you not good enough, you aren’t honest about it. Now, that will certainly go against your credibility, integrity (wiki) and reputation. You would be branded as a copy-cat and that would stick for the rest of your life.
The situation is widespread in academia and art a lot where people simply copy from others without citing them. It exists in every society and you can easily find examples from every one of them. What really matters is what that society is doing about it. If you make sure that the person responsible is made to pay for it, you would have lesser number of people doing it as time passes goes on. This is what concerns me about India and Indians. We, as a society, have accepted that borrowing ideas from others is fine and nobody should be making a fuss about it. We have a casual attitude towards copying assignments, ideas and codes without giving due credit. I liked our professor, [Prof. Bhaskar Raman](https://www.cse.iitb.ac.in/~br/webpage/), in this regard (amongst other things). He used to even cite question numbers from the book in our exam papers and then build upon them ([example](http://www.cse.iitb.ac.in/silmaril/br/doku.php)). People seem to acknowledge that we copy from others and then call it the Indian way of doing things. Quoting someone

  _copied ,indianised and refined..jai ho:P_

says it all. Well, this is what really pissing me out right now. I wouldn’t say any further on the topic because I think I have expressed my feeling about the topic in full.

A digression:

Now, here I have argued a lot about why plagiarism is bad but not really justified why a bad repertoire is not desirable. Well, all I have to say about this is that we (I personally think we should be) are looking for a society that promotes individual identities and existence. If we want a herd mentality, innovation and creation would cease to exist. The drive to explore new stuff would die and mankind would be like other animals doing it’s mediocre business and not curious enough about things. Besides, the self-joy of coming up with something new and creative is unquestionable. Do you think you would get the same joy if you just copy somebody’s work. Deep down you will always be thanking the creator and obviously yourself for simply refinding what is lost. Individualism is also important from the point of view of competition. If all start doing the same thing, there would be nothing that separates you out from the rest, to prove that you are different from the rest. By the way, a picture of humans from 8214 in painted by H. G. Wells in his classic The Time Machine. Though I haven’t completely read the book yet, he initially talks about the world where the protagonist thinks that future people are left with no energy and hence no creativity to come up with something. They have come to terms with Mother Nature and have accepted her unquestioningly and without challenge. I really wouldn’t want to live in a world where mankind is living its life like animals.

To end the topic for the post, I would point the source which led into this post and most of all, write this post (for public) above all the other posts that I was planning to write.
It’s an [entry to IIM A](https://www.facebook.com/photo.php?fbid=266010050097630&set=a.263257507039551.67875.249639638401338&type=1&theater), INDIA photography competition and has garnered roughly 2500 likes so far. I really liked the idea when I first saw the picture. I was practically staring it for full 2 minutes wondering the marvel but then comments showed that the idea was lifted [from here](https://media.tumblr.com/tumblr_lr2r2hwXIT1qctkcl.jpg). I hated the team for doing that, especially when other people mentioned the chalta hai attitude.

We can follow this post in the comments if you like. 😉

Ciao! pronounced [[ˈtʃaːo]](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Help:IPA/Italian)
hm