---
layout: single
title: Weird SMs
---

First things first, what is wrong with the wordpress login interface. Have to almost try thrice before I could write a post.

The post is a result of a discussion [Snehil](https://www.facebook.com/snehil.patwa) and I had in one of the so many all-nighters. I’ve to write SOP right now but I guess having a good job makes you lazy and changes your priorities. I’m just happy that I didn’t do this the usual way but asked my pet (computer ob) to do it for me!
This post is cautionary advice to people who post weird status messages, updates on their social media platform. Well, the world is already full of stupids; don’t add to the count.

What in my opinion constitutes as a stupid update:

A senti message asking people to pass this message to 10 people (tag 20 people on FB) to save a dying girl of cancer

Asking people to forward this message to 50 people to protect your love life, protect your mother or to show the world how much you love your sister

pOsT sTaTuS mEsSaGeS uNrEaDaBlE fOr AlL

POST STATUS MESSAGES UNREADABLE FOR ALL

Having random smileys in your post 🙂 😉 😛 😀 ::::DDDD

The philosophical and deep thinking quotient messages (or so you’d like to believe) that you obviously copied from somewhere without giving the original due credit

Oh! and I almost forgot: 7h@nk G0D ~~~~1 @m $0 h@ppy~~~~~ (more popular on Orkut)

Status updates like this irritates a lot of your close friends who have no choice but to then unsubscribe you (this is what I have started doing). To be fair, I personally give you a second chance and then be done with you (Believe me this is a lot of effort).

If you find this post a little offending or rude, you need to change your way of looking at the world.